---
layout: default
title: 1.1 | Pick a Topic
parent: ADD | Unit 1
grandparent: Applications of Digital Design
nav_exclude: false
---
# 1.1 | Pick a Topic
For this project, imagine you are being asked to create an original explainer video for an educational YouTube channel. You are being asked by the channel to create a video for a topic you are an expert on. You final video must include an introduction and a conclusion, and use voice-over to keep viewers engaged. The video must be between 1-3 minutes in length. 

During the planning process brainstorm several ideas before deciding on a final topic. Conduct research on other explainer videos that are related to your idea for a video.


## Opening Discussion:
- As a class discuss popular explainer videos that you have seen.
- Watch a few examples together and ask:
    - What is being done effectively?
    - What could be improved?
- After watching your class examples discuss: "
    - What topics do you think are important for an explainer video?

## Intro
### Determine your audience

### How to conduct effective research to identify topics that resonate with the audience
- Consider 3-5 Ideas for an explainer video. The topic should be something you consider yourself an expert at.
- Watch and review videos related to your topic.
    - Analyze videos for their content and determine what makes a good explainer video
    - As well, determine which traits you wish to avoid in your explainer video

{: .reflection }
What stands out to you as you watch these explainer videos?

### Design principals that can guide topic selection
1. **Relevance** - A relevant topic connects with the purpose of the assignment or the interests of the target audience. It ensures the topic has value and meaning in context.
    1. Choose a topic that **fulfills the criteria** of your design brief
    2. Consider what your audience **cares about or needs to know**.
    3. Consider current events, **trends**, or issues that make the topic especially **meaningful now**.
2. **Clarity** - A clear topic helps both you and your audience understand what will be explored. It sets **specific boundaries** and **avoids confusion or vagueness**.
    1. Narrow down broad ideas into **focused**, manageable topics.
    2. Choose words and phrasing that are **easy to understand**.
3. **Engagement** - An engaging topic **captures attention**, provokes curiosity, and encourages deeper thought or emotional response.
    1. Choose topics that invite **inquiry or debate**.
    2. Select something **surprising, controversial, or personally meaningful**.

{: .discussion }
What misconceptions can arise by assuming that any topic is suitable without considering the audience's interests?

Complete the [Pre-Production Worksheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oV_50uMiHUrZUHCyt1vYzqU586gWLCeibWdCjn6tTG8/copy) and submit the assignment on our LMS (Schoology)