---
layout: default
title: 1.1 | Intro to Digital Video Production 
parent: ADD | Unit 1
grandparent: Applications of Digital Design
nav_exclude: false
---
# 1.1 | Intro to Digital Video Production

    
## Introduction

Have you noticed the rise in amateur video productions? Not the festival entries, but those created by your neighbor's kids. Today, anyone can create impressive short films! Affordable tools enable students of all ages to craft personal projects that rival Hollywood quality. Sharing these films is easy too, on social media or online.

## Going Digital with Video
With a computer, a smartphone, and editing software like Adobe Premiere Pro, anyone can create professional-looking videos.

## Getting Started
Creating videos today is simple and fun! Whether you want to make a brief vacation recap or a feature-length film, gathering the right tools is key. You can use digital images or video footage and enhance your project with music, sound effects, voice-overs, titles, and special effects. Once you start filming, you'll see movies differently, noticing camera angles, sound, and effects, transforming you into a critic.

## The Movie-Making Process
### Preproduction
This phase includes everything from the initial idea to scriptwriting. Consider what you want to capture, whether it's a family vacation or a school project on history. Planning is essential; a shot list can help ensure you capture all critical moments.

For larger projects, a script can align the team, detailing visual directions and dialogue in a two-column format. The ultimate preproduction tool is a storyboard, which visually outlines every shot and includes camera movements and directions.

### Production
Capturing video is an art. Operators must focus on composition, lighting, and sound. Filming shifts your perspective from participant to observer, highlighting what’s important.

To optimize your footage:

- Focus on key moments and keep them clear on screen.
- Follow the "three S's" rule: Straight, Steady, and Smooth. A tripod is essential for stable shots.
- Pay attention to lighting; avoid backlighting and deep shadows by shooting in even light conditions.
- Ensure good audio by positioning the camera close to the sound source.

### Postproduction
This is where your film comes to life. Software like Adobe Premiere Pro allows you to import footage, edit clips, and add titles and effects, mirroring the tools professionals use. Be aware that transferring footage takes time and storage space, so ensure your computer is equipped properly.

### Distribution
Now you’re ready to share your creation! Options include:

- Posting to a video platform like Youtube
- Messaging your film to friends, but remember to compress files, which may lower quality.
- Posting to social media for broader access without significant quality loss.
- Storing your movie on a digital file backup like Google Drive.
