---
layout: default
title: 3.1 | Plan
parent: ADD | Unit 3
grandparent: Applications of Digital Design
nav_exclude: false
---
# 3.1 | Video Editing Basics

## Vocabulary

Non-Linear Editing
: In non-linear editing, edits are specified and modified by specialized software. Each time the edited audio, video, or image is rendered, played back, or accessed, it is reconstructed from the original source and the specified editing steps. Although this process is more computationally intensive than directly modifying the original content, changing the edits themselves can be almost instantaneous, and it prevents further generation loss as the audio, video, or image is edited.

Timeline
: The timeline is the area of a video editing application where you arrange your video clips and map out all the edits you’d like to apply. From start to finish, you’ll see all your video clips, audio clips, effects, and transitions laid out in chronological order as you work.


Bins
: Where your assets are stored in a Video Project. It’s name originates from a trim bin from film editing.

Camera Slate
: This tool is used to aid the editor in syncing visuals and audio when a scene is recorded on two separate devices (think film camera and audio recording device) The editor can sync the visual of the clapper closing to the audible click of the clapper.
  It also contains valuable information about the scene, take and camera set-up.


L Cut & J Cut
: Cuts where the audio carries underneath the following/proceeding cut. It is referred to as an L/J cut based on its shape.


## Essential Key Command / Tools

Shuttling [ j ] , [ k ] , [ l ]
: To move quickly back and forth through a clip the J/K/L keys serve as a your shuttle. This serves the same purpose as a job shuttle knob did on tape decks.

Ins and Outs [ i ] , [ o ] 
: These keys mark the points in a clip that you want your clip to start and end playback from.

Timeline Zoom [ - ] , [ + ]
: The [ - ] and [ + ] keys on the keyboard will zoom in and out on your timeline

Selection Tool [ v ]
: Along with making basic selections, you can also select edit points and perform trims where you can increase or decrease a clip’s duration. You can also use the Selection tool to highlight and move multiple clips at once, including moving clips from bins to the timeline and from track to track.

Track Select - [ a ] 
: lets you select all of the clips in a sequence, either forward or backwards

Ripple Edit [ b ] 
: used to trim a clip and “ripple” the rest of the clips in the timeline
