---
layout: default
title: 3.2 | Transitions / Conventions
parent: ADD | Unit 3
grandparent: Applications of Digital Design
nav_exclude: false
---
# 3.3 | Transitions / Conventions

## Vocabulary

Tracks
: Tracks work much like layers do in other Adobe Apps. They are called tracks from the idea that video used to be laid down from multiple tracks of tape.
Like Layers, the track on top is visible and can be blended on layers below it.

Transitions
: The way clips interact to create a sense of visual harmony/disharmony

Fades
: The most common type of transition effect. Usually used to visually express the passage of time

Shot
: a film sequence photographed continuously by one camera.

Continuity
: the maintenance of continuous action and self-consistent detail in the various scenes of a movie or broadcast.

Eyeline Match
: The idea that characters should appear to be looking each other in the eyes. Failure to do so creates an unnatural effect in the final edit.

Match on Action
: A Cut that is made at the midpoint of an action

Elliptical (...) Editing
: Suggesting time has passed, usually by using a wipe or dissolve.

## Editing Conventions

### Editing for Continuity
The continuity style is characterized by the experience of a smoothly flowing, seamless narrative--one that is visibly continuous and where we tend not to notice the gaps and breaks of scene changes, editing, and subtitles. Continuity editing is a system or grammar for organizing shots with the goal of maintaining the viewer's spatial orientation and temporal orientation. The continuity system is geared toward maintaining engagement and reducing self-consciousness of the act of viewing.

### Covering a Scene
In order to provide the editor with a variety of shots to choose from, conventional filmmaking frequently makes use of the following shot types:
- Establishing Shot
- Master Take
- Shot/Reverse Shot
- Cut Away

### 180 degree rule
When filming/editing dialogue, the idea that the camera should only move on one side of the axis of action. This establishes a sense of space that preserves continuity.

### Types of Edits
In order to create visual harmony (continuity), film editors rely on these basic types of edits.

Graphic Matches
: connects Shots based on visual similarities

Rhythmic Cutting
: connected shots based on pattern or rhythm

Spatial Cutting
: shot/reverse shot.

Temporal Cutting
: connecting shots to support narrative development (Flashback/Flash-Forward) establishes the progression of time.


