---
layout: default
title: 8.1 | Standard Script Formatting
parent: ADD | Unit 8
grandparent: Applications of Digital Design
nav_exclude: false
---
# 8.1 | Standard Script Formatting

# Introduction
The first step in creating a narrative film is writing a script. The steps below will help guide you through the process.

# Resources
* [A Shape of Stories - Kurt Vonnegut](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j9Qsiu8qqv)
* [ Sample Script](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mhztN1EooAOfS1dqiNQnsEnJqtm27-EjVz4_nllRxtA/copy)

# Preproduction

## Decide on a Narrative Arc
Try to plot out the major events in your story and how the conflict will resolve. Think about how many characters you want to include, the variety of locations you will need to secure and the amount of costuming you will need.

# Script Formatting
The first step in the filmmaking process is coming up for the idea for you video, and then formalizing it into a script. For this project, you will be following Hollywood scriptwriting conventions. There are a few quick steps to get your script in shape.

## Font Selection
Your font should be Courier or Courier New, 12-point

## Margins
* Shot Descriptions should have 1" margins
* Dialogue should be inset 2" margins, with character names centered above the dialogue

## Shot Headings
The beginning of each shot description should include the location and time of day, as well as any other visual notes you want to convey to the camera operator.

Examples:
EXT. SCHOOL - MORNING
INT. CLASSROOM - DESK - DRAMATIC SHADOWS
SLOW-MOTION - INT. BEDROOM - CLOSE-UP - TEDDY BEAR FACE - MIDNIGHT

### Order of Info
1. Special Information (Flashback, B&W, Slow-Mo)
2. INT or EXT
3. Name of Location Itself
4. Type of Shot
5. Subject of Shot
6. Time of Day

## Consistent Character Names
Make sure character names are the same throughout the script. (i.e. Always Maggie, and never Dylan's Mom)

## ALL CAPS
Three things need to be written in all caps to call attention to them in your script
1. INTRODUCING A SPEAKING CHARACTERS NAME
2. SOUND EFFECTS OR OFFSCREEN SOUNDS
3. CAMERA DIRECTION
Anything that is of specific importance to the camera operator/editor.

## Parentheticals
Use parentheses to tell the actor how deliver a line. [i.e. (whispers)]

## Keep it brief
Write succinctly. 

## Page Break
Notate when page breaks interrupt a scene, so that others know that the next page is a continuation of the previous one.

## Printing
Scripts are ultimately best used printed on paper. Paper should be 8.5"x11". The script should be three-hole punched and bound with #5 brass round-head fasteners. Brads should only be used on the top and bottom hole. This is tradition.

# Assignment
* For the purposes of this class, you need to write AT LEAST a three-page script.
* If you use the sample script to help you format your document, use the following text styles:
    * Shot Description - Normal Text
    * Character Name - Heading 1
    * Dialogue - Subtitle
* The thinking goes that a page of script is roughly a minute of screen time.
* It's better to overshoot on the amount you script, and cut material in the edit instead of trying to stretch out bad footage.
