---
layout: default
title: S | 2 | Television Scene Edit
parent: ADD | Unit 2
grandparent: Applications of Digital Design
nav_exclude: false
---
# S | 2 | Television Scene Edit
The culmination of this unit will be using skills we have discussed in class to edit a scene from a television show.

## Plan
1. Gather the resources you need to create your edit.
    - Script
    - Footage
    - Graphics
    - Sound Effects
    
{% include organizevideo.md %}


## Project Setup
1. Create a New Project in Adobe Premiere
2. Use a Conventional Naming Scheme ``YYYY-MM Project Name``
3. Save your project in ``Google Drive/My Drive/Digital Design/YYYY-MM PROJECT``

## Assembly Edit
1. Import your footage into your bin by dragging and dropping the folders you created earlier
2. Use your script to create an offline edit of the scene.
3. Maintain the original spirit of the scene, and try to be as true to the original vision as possible.
4. Try not to overly concern yourself with being frame accurate. The goal is to create an assembly that tells the story

## Offline Edit
1. Finetune the edit to clean up transitions and pacing. 
2. Bring in music, sound effects, and audio to bring your story to life.

## Online Edit
1. Perfect your cuts.
2. Mix Audio and apply filters and effects.
3. Adjust color correction to balance the look between shots.
4. Add graphics and titles. 
5. Crossfade all audio stems.
6. Fade in and out to black.

## Deliver
1. Export your final sequence to an H.264 .mp4 file
2. Place the export in a sub-directory of your Project Directory
3. Embed the video in your Portfolio Website on its own page
4. Add a project description
5. Submit the published portfolio page to your LMS (Schoology)