---
layout: default
title: 7.4 | Color Correction and Color Grading
parent: ADD | Unit 7
grandparent: Applications of Digital Design
nav_exclude: false
---
# Color Correction and Color Grading
## Overview
Color design as an element of cinematography is a multi-step consideration that begins on set and ends in the editing room.

## [White Balance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_balance)
The first step in color design, is by ensuring that on set colors are balanced to the camera settings. This means setting the camera white balance to accurately record colors, and adjusting the color temperature of lights on set to complement the other on set light sources.

### Setting White Balance on the Rebel T6
* [Setting camera white balance](https://support.usa.canon.com/kb/s/article/ART161376)

## [Color Grading](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_grading)
Color correction means adjusting the recorded footage to shift colors to an accurate color range. For example, shifting light sources may discolor neutral objects and color correction is a way of shifting colors to a more accurate range.

### Color Correction in Adobe Premiere
* [Color Correction in Adobe Premiere](https://helpx.adobe.com/premiere-pro/using/color-correction-adjustment.html)

## [[wikipedia:Color_grading|Color Grading]]
Color grading means adjusting the corrected image to create effects that further enhance the mood and tone of a shot.

### Color Grading in Adobe Premiere
* [Color grading workflows in Adobe Premiere](https://helpx.adobe.com/premiere-pro/using/color-workflows.html)
* [How to apply Lumetri color presets](https://nofilmschool.com/2017/07/create-and-apply-lumetri-color-presets-adobe-premiere-pro)

## Assignment
* Record Test Footage on the Rebel T6
    * One Shot should be a close up with shallow depth of field
    * One Shot should be a wide shot with a large depth of field
* Be sure to set the white balance for each shot using a white card
* Transfer your footage to your computer
    * Create a new project in Adobe Premiere to edit your footage
* Color correct the two shots in Adobe Premiere.
    * Apply correction to create a neutral baseline for your footage.
    * Apply a look to your color corrected footage.
* Export your footage to a H.264 with a .mp4 extension
* Upload your exported test footage to the discussion board below
    * [Click here for a refresher on how to setup the T6 for Video](7_2.md)
